README.md, before:

# EmailValidator

EmailValidator is a simple node.js helper library to check an email address's validity without sending a single email.

## Why?

If you send commercial email you know getting your email delivered is very hard - even if you follow all the rules. A high bounce rate (above 3%) can cause your delivery rates to drop dramatically. By validating email addresses that your team may collect over the phone and hand enter into a CRM you can protect yourself and decrease your bounce rate. Thereby increasing your email marketing effectiveness.

## Features

* Very basic email syntax check. 
* Check for valid MX records
* If no MX records are found, check for valid A record
* Verify MX/A has a listening email server
* Redis used as a cache to improve speed and avoid bombarding mail servers

## Risks

It is possible that if you query a single provider too much that the email provider will block you. We've implemented a Redis cache to mitigate this.

It is possible that you perform a validity check when an ISP's SMTP server is down, inaccurately noting it as offline

## Installation

setup redis

`./src/redis-server /usr/redis-2.8.9/redis.conf`

We'll just use the default port. If you have something custom, then you'll need to configure the connection.

Next, install the package

`npm instal emailvalidator`

run `npm start`


## Using as a Microservice

Just send a `GET` request to <a href="/validator/me@lucasjans.com">/validator/me@lucasjans.com</a>

## Using as a node module

This hasn't been setup to run as a node module. You could yank out the controllor or refactor the code to make this possible.

Commit message:

refactored as a node module, no longer a microservice. might add the microservice back later.

README.md, after:

# EmailValidator

EmailValidator is a simple node.js helper library to check an email address's validity without sending a single email.

## Why?

If you send commercial email you know getting your email delivered is very hard - even if you follow all the rules. A high bounce rate (above 3%) can cause your delivery rates to drop dramatically. By validating email addresses that your team may collect over the phone and hand enter into a CRM you can protect yourself and decrease your bounce rate. Thereby increasing your email marketing effectiveness.

## Features

* Very basic email syntax check. 
* Check for valid MX records
* If no MX records are found, check for valid A record
* Verify MX/A has a listening email server
* Redis used as a cache to improve speed and avoid bombarding mail servers

## Risks

It is possible that if you query a single provider too much that the email provider will block you. We've implemented a Redis cache to mitigate this.

It is possible that you perform a validity check when an ISP's SMTP server is down, inaccurately noting it as offline

## Installation

setup redis

`./src/redis-server /usr/redis-2.8.9/redis.conf`

We'll just use the default port. If you have something custom, then you'll need to configure the connection.

Next, install the package

`npm install emailvalidator`


## Using as a node module

In the simplest form you can just call:
```require('emailvalidator').checkEmailAddress('me@lucasjans.com', {externalIpAddress: '93.184.216.119', redisPort: 6379, redisHost: '127.0.0.1'});```

The parameters are optional, but should you lave a blank externalIpAddress you may affect the accuracy of the program.

To lookup your external IP address, just call
```require('emailvalidator').getExternalIp()```
